# LTC2990 Setup and Usage Information

This is of course all in the data sheet, but it's summarized here for ease of use.

## Voltage ranges

- We'll run the LTC2990 off of the MPPT output, which is 4.2V, which is within the 2.9 - 5.5 V range.
- This might be a noisy supply? But because V1, V2 will be ~ 4.2 V, the minimum Vcc can be is 3.9V according to the maximum ratings.
- I2C becomes a bit dicey: We're pulling the SCL/SDA lines up to 3.3V. The minimum high voltage is 0.7Vcc = 0.7*4.2 = 2.94 V. That's close to 3.3V, but it should be OK.


## Temperature diode

Whatever; use a 2N3906 like the datasheet suggests. In our case, a ON Semiconductor MMBT3904LT3G which is rated to +155 deg C.


## Shunt resistor

+/- 0.3 V is the maximum differential voltage across V1/V2. To reach that with only 250 mA from the solar panels, that would be a ~1 ohm resistor which would be a redonculously large power drop.
The datasheet says that the conversion is (count) * 19.42 uV/Rsense. Using 50 mohm, that's 0.00001942/0.05 = 0.000388.4 A so 388.4 uA/LSB. at 234 mA, that's a count of 600 full scale, or about 9 bits full scale. We only really care about the high end anyway, and a resolution of ~ 1 mA per count seems reasonable, so our 0.388 mA/count passes the reasonableness test.

## I2C & Addresses

- Clock frequency is 100 - 400 KHz. Suggest 100 KHz.
- Base Address: 0x98 = 1001 1000

The control registers we care about are:

| REGISTER ADDRESS | REGISTER NAME | READ/WRITE | DESCRIPTION | 
|------------------|---------------|------------|-------------|
| 00h              | STATUS        | R          | Indicates BUSY State, Conversion Status | 
| 01h              | CONTROL       | R/W        | Controls Mode: Channels, Single/Repeat, Celsius/Kelvin | 
| 02h              | TRIGGER       | R/W        | Any write triggers a conversion | 


## LTC2990 Usage

- We're reading the solar module output current using the differential V1-V2 across a 180 mOhm shunt.
- We're reading the solar module output voltage by measuring VCC.
- We're reading the Solar array temperature using an external 2N3904 across V3 and V4.
- We're also reading the internal temperature measurment, because we can.

We want to minimize power consumption, so we're leaving it in "one shot" mode and only doing a conversion everyonce in a while. It's not clear, but we *think* when not converting it's in "shutdown" mode, which takes only a few microamps (versus several mA when converting).


## Timing

Not sure here; the timing values aren't tested or guaranteed and seem pretty fuzzy. We're doing two temperature measurements (55 ms max) plus current (1.8 ms) plus VCC (1.8 ms) so that's like 60 ms max. We'll call it 100 ms to be safe, so we can be polling at 10 Hz, which seems pretty reasonable, if not a little too fast. Note that the temperature could be 0.1 Hz, but it's the current of the array we're interested in at higher bandwidths


## Setup the CONTROL Register (0x01)

- b7 = 0 = Celsius
- b6 = 1 = Single Acquisition
- b5 = 0 = reserved
- b4 = 11 = all measurements
- b3 
- b2 = 001 = setup measuring current on V1 – V2 and TR2 (remote temperature probe on V3,v4)
- b1
- b0 


## Triggering conversions

- Write anything to the TRIGGER register (0x02).
- Read the STATUS Register (0x00) bit 0.
   - b0 = 1 means conversion  is still taking place
   - b0 = 0 means conversion is complete
   - Assuming we wait 100ms after conversion, it should be ready.
- Using a multiple byte read, read locations 0x04 through 0x0F.
- Calculate values
   - Tint (Internal tempature)
      - Two registers: Tint MSB (0x04) and Tint LSB (0x05)
      - Tint MSB b7 = Data Valid (= conversion is done)
      - Tint MSB b6:b5 = 00
      - D[12:0] = lower 13 bits of Tint MSB:LSB
      - T = (signed int D[12:0]) / 16
   - V1-v2 (current sense)
      - Two registers: V1 (MSB) (0x06) and V1 (LSB) (0x07)
      - V1 MSB b7 = Data Valid (= conversion is done)
      - V1 MSB b6 = SIGN (0 = +1, 1 = -1)
      - D[13:0] = lower 14 bits of V1 MSB:LSB
      - dV = SIGN x D[13:0] x 19.42 uV [volts]
      - I = dv / R = dV / 0.05 [Amps]
   - V3-V4 (Tr2 = remote current sense 2)
      - Two registers: V3 (MSB) (0x0A) and V3 (LSB) (0x0B)
      - v3 MSB b7 = Data Valid (1= conversion is done)
      - v3 MSB b6 = Sensor short (1 = sensor is shorted together or to ground)
      - v3 MSB b5 = Sensor open (1 = sensor is open circuit)
      - D[12:0] = lower 13 bits of V3 MSB:LSB
      - T = (signed int D[12:0]) / 16
   - Vcc (Vsolar)
      - Two registers: VCC (MSB) (0x0E) and VCC (LSB) (0x0F)
      - V1 MSB b7 = Data Valid (= conversion is done)
      - V1 MSB b6 = SIGN (0 = +1, 1 = -1)
      - Vcc = 2.5 + SIGN x D[13:0] x  305.18 µV [volts]

