# IDT ZSPM4521

> "ZSPM4521 is a DC/DC synchronous switching lithium-ion (Li-Ion) battery charger with fully inte- grated power switches, internal compensation, and full fault protection. It uses a temperature-independent photovoltaic maximum power point tracking (MPPT) function to optimize power output from the source during Full-Charge Constant-Current (CC) Mode."

**NB:** The ZSPM4521 is End-Of-Life (EOL) and is generally not available. It is NOT recommended for new designs. We've chosen to use it because it's the only true MPPT IC that works for higher voltage (~ 5V) panels. It should be replaced by another buck MPPT, which seems to not exist. Beware of ICs calling themselves MPPT when in fact they're just setting their voltage to 70% of a voltage setting, which of course is light and temperature dependent and thus useless as a true MPPT.

Some featrures we like:

- True MPPT
- VBAT reverse-current blocking
- -40 to 125 deg C operation
- ESD protection
- 4.0 - 7.2 V solar input voltage but Vin startup of 3.15 V
- Iq = 3 mA 
- 1 MHz operation
- 1.5 A maximum current


## Design Inputs

- Solar cells (assuming PEP cover) 
   - Voc = 5.45 V and Isc = 244 mA
   - Vmp = 4.85 V and Imp = 231 mA => Pmp = 1.12 W


## Tests we ought to do

- Turn on time: how long does it take from full sun to full charging output?
- Make sure that there is no battery backflow into the PV module as insolation drops and the PV voltage collapses  .


## Registers

| Adrs | Reg. Name | Default | Set to | Notes |
| 0x00 | STATUS    | READ ONLY, but If the NFLT line goes low, there was a _fault_ condition, not a _warning_ condition. At this point, you have to read the the STATUS register (0x00) in order for the register to clear. |
| 0x02 | CONFIG1  | 0x?? | 0x36 | 0b00-110-110 = Full 370 mA pre-charge current (> 250 mA solar panel output!) / set low temp charging to 4.18V even though no thermister. |
| 0x03 | CONFIG2  | 0x?? | 0x36 | 0b00-110-110 = End of charge is when Ieoc < 50 mA / set low temp charging to 4.18V even though no thermister. |
| 0x04 | CONFIG3  | 0x?? | 0xAA | 0b1010-1010 = 1000 mA charge current at low to standard temperatures |
| 0x05 | CONFIG4  | 0x?? | 0xAA | 0b1010-1010 = 1000 mA charge current at standard to hot temperatures |
| 0x06 | CONFIG5  | 0x?? | 0x78 | 0b0-1-111-000 = 25 mA top off charge current, 100kohm thermister, disable TO, Disable full cahrger. |
| 0x11 | CONFIG_ENABLE | |      | 0x00 to disable access, 0x01 to enable access |
| 0x12 | EEPROM_CTRL   | |      | 0x00 = disable EEPROM programming, 0x01 enable EEPROM programming |


## Components

Lout = 4.7 uH (saturation current > load + ripple current)
Cout = 4.7 uF (ESR < 35 mohm)
Cin = 10 uF (low ESR)
Rsense = 50 mohm


## Understanding Figure 2.2 Charging state diagram

- **INITIALIZE STATE**
   - INITIALIZE: Waiting for Valid, Charging Conditions
   - How long does it wait? What are the "Charging conditions"
   - NO FAULTS & VBAT < VRESTART
   - Vrestart is 100 mV so if batteries are set at 4.18 V then batteries must be < 4.08 V to start charge
- **PRE-CHARGE STATE**
   - PRE-CHARGE: MPPT with Pre-charge Current Limit
   - This is set to 370 mA so this is immediately 
   - VBAT > V_PRECHG Threshold
   - Vprechg is (2.9,3.0,3.1) V 
- **FULL-CHARGE CONSTANT CURRENT (CC) MODE**
   - 1C CHARGING: MPPT w/1C Current Limit and Full Charge Timer
   - How long does it take to get to this "normal" mode? And how can we tell we're there?
   - VBAT =V TERMINATION & I CHARGE < I EOC
      - Vtermination set to 4.18V, and Ieoc set to 50 mA (smallest possible in order to stay in CC mode)
   - I CHARGE < Top Off End Current
      - top off end current set to 25 mA (smallest possible to stay in CC mode)
- **CONSTANT VOLTAGE MODE**
   - If Vbat = Vtermination & Icharge < Top off end current (Vbat = 4.18V and Icharge < 25 mA) then go to INITIALIZE STATE.
   - All timers are disabled.


## WTF on the Evaluation Board

- D1 Schotkey diode from GND to SW1/SW2: "it can be populated to increase efficiency and provide a better load regulation. Care should be taken to select a diode that is rated to handle the output current supplied by the regulator." 
- C6 100 nF cap from GND to VSENSE: Wut. Why is this here? Why isn't this in the datasheet? This makes total sense to smooth vsense, but...?


## Eval board component choices

Note that they were expecting a peak current of 1.5 A, and didn't care about size
- Cin TDK C3225Y5V1C106Z/1.15 = 1210 10 µF 16V
- Cout TDK C3225X7R1E475K = 1210 4.7 µF 25V
- L1 Cooper Bussman DR74-4R7-R = 4.7 uH 3.34 A 25.4 mohm (shielded drum core inductor) (7.6 x 7.6 x 4.35 mm!)
- R1 Ohmite MCS1632R050FER = 1206 50mΩ 1W 1% 50ppm


## OreSat component choices

We care about temperature and size. Automotive rating if possible. And our max current is ~ 250 mA.

- Cin TDK CGA5L1X8L1C106K160AC = 1206 16V 10UF 10% X8L 1.60 mm [link](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/tdk-corporation/CGA5L1X8L1C106K160AC/445-175273-2-ND/7930948)
- Cout TDK C3225X7R1E475K = 1210 4.7 µF 25V
- L1 Bourns SRU5018-4R7Y = 4.7 uH 2 A 36 mohm shielded SMT w/four tabs (5.20mm x 5.20mm x 2.00) [link](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/bourns-inc/SRU5018-4R7Y/SRU5018-4R7YCT-ND/3437992)
- R1 Vishay WSL0805R0500FEA = 0805 50 mohm 1% 1/8W 75 ppm [link](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/vishay-dale/WSL0805R0500FEA/WSLA-.05CT-ND/713398)

Did NOT include the D1 from the evaluation board because ?!!?, but did include C6.



